Java Tutorial ? Home Jobs Tools Coding Ground Current Affairs UPSC Notes Online Tutors Whiteboard Tutorix Login Categories Academic Tutorials Big Data & Analytics Computer Programming Computer Science Databases DevOps Digital Marketing Engineering Tutorials Exams Syllabus Famous Monuments GATE Exams Tutorials Latest Technologies Machine Learning Mainframe Development Management Tutorials Mathematics Tutorials Microsoft Technologies Misc tutorials Mobile Development Java Technologies Python Technologies SAP Tutorials Programming Scripts Selected Reading Software Quality Soft Skills Telecom Tutorials UPSC IAS Exams Web Development Sports Tutorials XML Technologies Multi-Language Interview Questions Q/A Library eBooks Courses Java Tutorial Java - Home Java - Overview Java - Environment Setup Java - Basic Syntax Java - Object & Classes Java - Constructors Java - Basic Datatypes Java - Variable Types Java - Modifier Types Java - Basic Operators Java - Loop Control Java - Decision Making Java - Numbers Java - Characters Java - Strings Java - Arrays Java - Date & Time Java - Regular Expressions Java - Methods Java - Files and I/O Java - Exceptions Java - Inner classes Java Object Oriented Java - Inheritance Java - Overriding Java - Polymorphism Java - Abstraction Java - Encapsulation Java - Interfaces Java - Packages Java Advanced Java - Data Structures Java - Collections Java - Generics Java - Serialization Java - Networking Java - Sending Email Java - Multithreading Java - Applet Basics Java - Documentation Java Useful Resources Java - Questions and Answers Java - Quick Guide Java - Useful Resources Java - Discussion Java - Examples Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Java Tutorial PDF Version Quick Guide Resources Job Search Discussion Java is a high-level programming language originally developed by Sun Microsystems and released in 1995. Java runs on a variety of platforms, such as Windows, Mac OS, and the various versions of UNIX. This tutorial gives a complete understanding of Java. This reference will take you through simple and practical approaches while learning Java Programming language. Why to Learn java Programming? Java is a MUST for students and working professionals to become a great Software Engineer specially when they are working in Software Development Domain. I will list down some of the key advantages of learning Java Programming: Object Oriented ? In Java, everything is an Object. Java can be easily extended since it is based on the Object model. Platform Independent ? Unlike many other programming languages including C and C++, when Java is compiled, it is not compiled into platform specific machine, rather into platform independent byte code. This byte code is distributed over the web and interpreted by the Virtual Machine (JVM) on whichever platform it is being run on. Simple ? Java is designed to be easy to learn. If you understand the basic concept of OOP Java, it would be easy to master. Secure ? With Java's secure feature it enables to develop virus-free, tamper-free systems. Authentication techniques are based on public-key encryption. Architecture-neutral ? Java compiler generates an architecture-neutral object file format, which makes the compiled code executable on many processors, with the presence of Java runtime system. Portable ? Being architecture-neutral and having no implementation dependent aspects of the specification makes Java portable. Compiler in Java is written in ANSI C with a clean portability boundary, which is a POSIX subset. Robust ? Java makes an effort to eliminate error prone situations by emphasizing mainly on compile time error checking and runtime checking. Hello World using Java Programming. Just to give you a little excitement about Java programming, I'm going to give you a small conventional C Programming Hello World program, You can try it using Demo link. Live Demo public class MyFirstJavaProgram {

   /* This is my first java program.
    * This will print 'Hello World' as the output
    */

   public static void main(String []args) {
      System.out.println("Hello World"); // prints Hello World
   }
}
 Applications of Java Programming The latest release of the Java Standard Edition is Java SE 8. With the advancement of Java and its widespread popularity, multiple configurations were built to suit various types of platforms. For example: J2EE for Enterprise Applications, J2ME for Mobile Applications. The new J2 versions were renamed as Java SE, Java EE, and Java ME respectively. Java is guaranteed to be Write Once, Run Anywhere. Multithreaded ? With Java's multithreaded feature it is possible to write programs that can perform many tasks simultaneously. This design feature allows the developers to construct interactive applications that can run smoothly. Interpreted ? Java byte code is translated on the fly to native machine instructions and is not stored anywhere. The development process is more rapid and analytical since the linking is an incremental and light-weight process. High Performance ? With the use of Just-In-Time compilers, Java enables high performance. Distributed ? Java is designed for the distributed environment of the internet. Dynamic ? Java is considered to be more dynamic than C or C++ since it is designed to adapt to an evolving environment. Java programs can carry extensive amount of run-time information that can be used to verify and resolve accesses to objects on run-time. Audience This tutorial has been prepared for the beginners to help them understand the basic to advanced concepts related to Java Programming language. Prerequisites Before you start practicing various types of examples given in this reference, we assume that you are already aware about computer programs and computer programming languages. Useful Video Courses Video Java Date and Time Online Training 16 Lectures 2 hours Malhar Lathkar More Detail Video Java Servlet Online Training 19 Lectures 5 hours Malhar Lathkar More Detail Video JavaScript Online Training 25 Lectures 2.5 hours Anadi Sharma More Detail Video Java Online Training Most Popular 126 Lectures 7 hours Tushar Kale More Detail Video Java Essential Training 119 Lectures 17.5 hours Monica Mittal More Detail Video Java Essentials Online Training 76 Lectures 7 hours Arnab Chakraborty More Detail Previous Page Print Page Next Page Advertisements Print Add Notes Bookmark this page Report Error Suggestions Save Close Dashboard Logout About us Refund Policy Terms of use Privacy Policy FAQ's Contact ? Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved. We make use of cookies to improve our user experience. By using this website, you agree with our Cookies Policy. Agree Learn more